#### Social Media is a State Weapon ####   
> 'Governments in Venezuela, the Philippines, Turkey and elsewhere use social media to influence elections, drive agendas and counter critics, says report'   
– [Thirty countries use 'armies of opinion shapers' to manipulate democracy – report](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2017/nov/14/social-media-influence-election-countries-armies-of-opinion-shapers-manipulate-democracy-fake-news)

Notice that this report is from **Freedom House** which is 95%+ funded by the US State Department – what it says might be accurate, but what they analize and why is biased by this fact.  Things are changing at Trump's State Dept - Venezuela is still a #1 target as it was under Obama, but the other two less so now. I wonder if Tillerson will slash funding for Freedom House like he has for so many other State Dept staff and programs?

---
#### Database Tracks History Of U.S. Meddling In Foreign Elections ####

>NPR's Ari Shapiro talks to Carnegie Mellon University researcher Dov Levin about his historical database that tracks U.S. involvement in meddling with foreign elections over the years.   
**Ari Shapiro**: How often do other countries like Russia, for example, try to alter the outcome of elections as compared to the United States?   
**Dov Levin**: Well, for my dataset, the United States is the most common user of this technique. Russia or the Soviet Union since 1945 has used it half as much. My estimate has been 36 cases between 1946 to 2000....   
–– [NPR Radio December 22, 2016](https://www.npr.org/2016/12/22/506625913/database-tracks-history-of-u-s-meddling-in-foreign-elections)

----
#### Trump not really in command of the Bush-Obama Wars ####
>**Andrew J. Bacevich** writes:  
'Since becoming president, he has largely ceded decision-making on the conduct of America’s wars to the very generals he derided while running for office. Trump has not entirely vacated the office of commander-in-chief. Yet, as with so many other aspects of the job, he occupies it on only an occasional basis and rarely with the requisite skill.   
   Within the armed forces, and among members of the media with a hawkish bent, the beef against Barack Obama as war president was that he micromanaged our military campaigns, denying warriors the latitude and flexibility they needed to get things done. Former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates compared Obama to LBJ, an unrivaled military meddler. He believed that, like Johnson, Obama had intruded into military matters that were beyond his purview, with results that were far from helpful. No one will make a similar charge against President Trump. Not since 1861, when Abraham Lincoln entrusted the conduct of the Civil War to George McClellan, the ineffectual leader known as “Little Napoleon,” has the balance of civil-military authority tilted so greatly in favor of the generals...'  
– [Leave It to the Generals](https://newrepublic.com/article/145418/leave-generals)

---



